Metadata-Version: 1.1
Name: kazam
Version: 1.5.4
Summary: A screencasting program created with design in mind.
Home-page: https://launchpad.net/kazam
Author: David Klasinc
Author-email: bigwhale@lubica.net
License: GPLv3
Description: 
                   Kazam v1.5.x "NX-72307"
        
        
        Introduction
        ------------
        
        Kazam is a simple screen recording program that will capture the content
        of your screen and record a video file that can be played by any video
        player that supports VP8/WebM video format.
        
        Optionally you can record sound from any sound input device that is
        supported and visible by PulseAudio.
        
        
        Latest version
        --------------
        
        Kazam is always available from Launchpad under https://launchpad.net/kazam
        
        Latest stable release is 1.4.4.
        Latest unstable release is 1.5.0
        
        
        Installation - stable release
        -----------------------------
        
        If you are using Ubuntu 14.04 then stable version (1.4.4) is available from
        universe repository. You can find it in Ubuntu Softare Center or install it
        from the terminal with the following command:
        
        $ sudo apt-get install kazam
        
        For other Ubuntu based distributions the best way to install Kazam is
        to add a PPA repository and then use apt-get command or Software Center.
        
        $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:kazam-team/stable-series
        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install kazam
        
        For distribution independent installation you will have to get the latest
        tarball release from Launchpad:
        
        http://launchpad.net/kazam/stable/1.4.4/+download/kazam_1.4.4.tar.gz
        
        Unpack it and then run setup:
        
           $ tar -xzf kazam_1.4.4.tar.gz
           $ cd kazam-1.4.4
        
        Run installation as root user, or use sudo:
        
           # python3 setup.py install
        
        
        Installation - unstable version
        -------------------------------
        
        Installing current unstable build from a PPA can be done by adding
        unstable series PPA.
        
        $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:kazam-team/unstable-series
        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install kazam
        
        
        Installation - development version
        ----------------------------------
        
        If you want bleeding edge, development version then you will have to get
        source code from Launchpad by running the following command:
        
           $ bzr branch lp:kazam/unstable
        
        Then you need to run setup.py to build and install Kazam:
        
           $ cd kazam
           # python3 setup.py install
        
        You will have to run setup as root user or use sudo. Default installation
        path is /usr/local.
        
        
        Running Kazam
        -------------
        
        If you want to run Kazam from the source tree, there are a few limitations
        that you have to take into account. Every icon has to be taken from
        currently installed icon theme. Toolbars will not show any icons and you
        will not see Unity AppIndicator.
        
        To run Kazam simply execute te following commands in the source tree:
        
        $ cd bin
        $ ./kazam
        
        If you already have Kazam installed then Kazam icons will be displayed
        properly.
        
        
        Keyboard shortcuts
        ------------------
        
        SUPER-CTRL-Q - Quit
        SUPER-CTRL-W - Show/Hide main window
        SUPER-CTRL-R - Start Recording
        SUPER-CTRL-F - Finish Recording
        
        Keyboard shortcuts will work on Precise Pangolin only if you installed
        Kazam 1.4.x from the PPA, keybinder 3.0 is a dependency and will be installed
        automatically.
        
        For Ubuntu 12.10 and newer keyboard binder is available in the universe
        repositories and there is no need to use PPA to get keybinder installed.
        
        
        Recording Tips
        --------------
        
        Framerates above 20fps are unlikely to work well because of software and
        hardware limitations. If you increase framerate and framerate in
        resulting video drops, that is because encoder can't keep up.
        
        Always do a sound check. Especially if you are recording a live commentary
        with background sound. I got the best results when I used earphones to listen
        to the audio while recording. This way your mic will not pick up any audio
        coming from speakers.
        
        If you _really_ want loss-less quality, then you will have to record in RAW
        format. This is possible, but without an SSD with a lot of free space your
        results will be terrible. 1920x1080 at 15 frames per second will need
        around 45 MB of disk space per second. Most people will want to record at
        20 or 25 frames per second. Most disk will not handle that and your
        system will start to crawl.
        
        Your next best bet is HUFFYUV format, which is a little bit friendlier on
        disk bandwidth with 28 MB per second at 15 frames per second. The problem?
        Not many video editors and players can handle HUFFYUV, let alone video
        sharing services.
        
        
        Known Issues
        ------------
        
        - New countdown timer will work correctly only if you have pycairo 1.10.1
        installed. Ubuntu 14.04 ships with 1.10.0. Unstable PPA for kazam currently
        provides the latest pycairo. This version of pycairo is untested and it might
        happen that other things will break if you install it.
        
        - Trouble with recording audio from certain Monitor sources. I noticed
        this with Logitech G110 USB Keyboard that can play audio. Pulse
        Audio will see two devices: USP PnP Stereo Device and 'Monitor of USB PnP
        Stereo Device'. When recording from the monitor, volume controls for
        both devices will affect the volume in the final recording.
        
        - I have no idea where to put Mute/Unmute button, so right now every audio
        source you select is automatically unmuted.
        
        - It was reported that sound is disappearing after couple of minutes into
        the recording. I wasn't able to reproduce this bug and any more info is
        appreciated. See https://bugs.launchpad.net/kazam/+bug/933835 for more
        details.
        
        - Two memory leaks were noticed, one with VP8 encoder and one with Intel
        graphics cards. Still investigating if this is a driver, Xorg or
        GStreamer problem.
        
        - Non compositing window managers are not able to render transparent
        windows. Area selection and countdown timers will be affected by this.
        Mint users can turn on window compositing in Desktop Settings.
        
        - When taking a screenshot of a preselected window with window decorations
        you have to make sure that your window is not covered by other windows.
        
        - Mouse cursor is offseted by a number of pixels when capturing video of a
        pre-selected window. This is due to a GStreamer bug.
        See https://bugs.launchpad.net/kazam/+bug/1092339 and
        https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=690646 for more info.
        
        - Preliminary support for displaying keypresses and mouse clicks is done.
        It looks ugly and support is still clumsy it can also die and stop working.
        There are issues with dual screen setups.
        
        - Broadcast support is currenly in a very experimental stage. It will only
        work for YouTube Live. Support for Twitch is coming in the next updates.
        You will have to provide YouTube Live Stream and Server URL from custom made
        ingestion.
        
        
        Debugging & reporting problems
        ------------------------------
        
        If you encounter a bug or any kind of unexpected behavior please try to
        reproduce it while you run Kazam from standard terminal with --debug option.
        Use Launchpad to report bugs (https://bugs.launchpad.net/kazam/+filebug) and
        include generated output.
        
        
        
Keywords: screencast screenshot capture audio sound video recorder kazam
Platform: UNKNOWN
Classifier: Development Status :: 4 - Beta
Classifier: Environment :: X11 Applications :: GTK
Classifier: Intended Audience :: End Users/Desktop
Classifier: License :: OSI Approved :: GNU Library or Lesser General Public License (LGPL)
Classifier: Operating System :: POSIX :: Linux
Classifier: Programming Language :: Python
Classifier: Topic :: Multimedia :: Graphics :: Capture :: Screen Capture
Classifier: Topic :: Multimedia :: Sound/Audio :: Capture/Recording
Classifier: Topic :: Multimedia :: Video :: Capture
